okay I'm still feeling iffy so so bear
bear with me so I got all these text
messages for my mom I'm trying to hide
from you guys
let's see sure my mom my mom loves me
very much that was the gist of it the
gist okay can everyone see my screen yep
yeah I get a weird green line is this
pulling is this pulling out of the
visible area or no no no okay weird and
you guys can't see this green line going
across my screen you can just see screen
desktop background and everything okay
cool we'll leave it there it's funny
when you're not feeling well your motor
skills are not quite what they usually
are okay so I kind of stuck I have a few
things and I want to leave you guys with
a few things I want to leave you Winston
I'm still working on officially my last
days tomorrow I'll work on some of that
but but I'm yeah there's one extra thing
I think it'll help a lot of ways but
people are moving forward with this I
kind of stuck to the to the format that
you suggested Molly I thought that
helped organize my thoughts and you know
this it's kind of a big topic so I feel
like there's gonna be a lot of questions
and and not all of its gonna be totally
relevant it should follow up in like in
issues and stuff like that so some feel
free to you know post those questions
and to me directly we've kind of talked
about them here the Y improving provider
strategies is important I felt so
sometimes I felt like no it's obvious
we've all been working on it but I'm
just going to write
at least what my mind said has been for
the you know for however a little bit of
time I've been I've been working on if
they kind of and I think this pretty
much drives with everyone's
understanding which is that our current
scheme of breaking up all of our content
into 256 K blocks and announcing each of
those blocks to the rest of the network
presents a large burden for announcing
and discovering regardless of what we
like the performance of the DHD
regardless of how we like implement the
underlying mechanism and all of that it
just seems like our we have really
ambitious goals for the amount of
content that we want to have in ipfs and
therefore announcing at that granularity
I just it seems like any to any solution
we come up with as the underlying
mechanism is going to suffer from the
same problem which is just we're gonna
flood we're gonna flood the network with
announcements so we want to avoid that I
think even if it could support it it
would be worthwhile to avoid it if we
can't it just frees up you know there's
an opportunity cost there Michael do you
wanna maybe just command shift equals or
command plus a little bit just for
posterity video yes thank you so much
that's great yes sorry about that works
works on my machine but yeah all are
just okay so current state of the
provider strategies and of idea fest I
wish this wasn't such like a complicated
thing it seems relatively
straightforward I think from the right
people it probably is I thought the best
way to kind of give the current state is
to go into it kind of how the work
developed it's not it's not that long so
I like to go to it integrates with
detail but I wanted at least cover ups
covers some of the highlights so there's
a there exists there isn't currently an
experimental providing system but I've
been working on the hope is that
eventually it's going to replace the
current money system and go ipfs the
current system is like hardly a system
at all there's just there's some workers
in go ipfs and there's some code that
routes new blocks to these workers and
these workers announced without any
context whatever blocks that they come
into contact you and it basically kills
our the ability for us to have flexible
providing
the kind of providing we sort of like
not bike shed but the sort of providing
we really go into into detail over
requires us to have structural knowledge
of some kind of of the things that were
of the things that we're providing the
goal of the new system is to is to
essentially yank that responsibility
from from bid swap and put it into IP FS
and then and then from there we in
theory have more control we're gonna do
an ad we you know we have the we have
the root node we can do the ad and then
we could do some stuff using like the
dad service to determine structure and
crawling that kind of thing to determine
what to provide labor so that so the
overall goal was shift it swap into and
to go out confess and at any point
please chime in with Corrections or
questions or anything so this work went
through some stages when I first started
admittedly I didn't know anything about
ipfs and this sort of distributed stuff
so there was some I got pointed in some
directions and there was some time spent
just figuring out what the ask what the
ask was so there were some stages at the
beginning where there just were there
were a couple of failures and and
restarts which we were pretty vocal like
vocal about getting feedback on that's
where those first handful of RFC's came
from so the original trumpet the
original epic tracking issue excuse so
this here is an issue that started way
back in November
way back in November and that and it
kind of detailed the plan at the top and
the plan at the time made sense to me
and evolved in such a way that it we
just ran into some blockers so okay so
I'll kind of go over what the what the
plan we're not gonna go into too much
detail because a lot of this change but
we'll talk about some of the
complications so basically we were like
let's remove posts let's remove bits off
front provide provide and we'll add
the equivalent bit swap I mean I'm sorry
the equivalent provide into ipfs that
ended up being it's just a much bigger
challenge then then it seems at first
glance because bit swap has this has a
it's a very simple mechanism where all
blocks that you come into contact with
will be provided and once you remove
that you now have to go through the
entire system and figure out what
actions resulted what blocks what do we
want to you know do about that and and
that kind of thing
and in doing and starting to figure out
that work in starting to figure out that
I'll go over that in a minute
so our goal yeah introduced a provider
and provide all strategy use then post
ad that was kind of the like hey this
should cover our main our main use case
then we'll make the provider more robust
the idea here was like hey like it'll
provide as quickly as bits aa bit swap
or whatever other little things that we
use that we've learned along the way
that it was that he was gonna do we
deferred this actually because we just
deferred bringing the provider and the
Reaper in line because it was yet a
bigger change that was gonna block any
any of these smaller things from going
from going through so the idea was that
we had some ideas for how we could do
okay let's there's a smaller thing we
could do and we can attack we can tackle
the Reaper lighter next the next thing
was basically like let's just detail all
the places that we need to go through
and figure out where we're providing
calls didn't exist that they need to now
this list was it's not exhaustive
unfortunately though I was trying to be
at the time I've since learned of a few
of a few places and I've documented
those elsewhere but you can see on all
these check boxes that's because some of
this work was done so that was kind of
there's a sort of pattern here for the
providing work where we kind of go we
went deep down a path we probably with
the deepest down the first path and
implemented a bunch of stuff and then we
learned we just can't merge all of this
at once
there's too many cases there's just too
much going on and we
had a backpedal basically so a lot of
the work that still needs to be done in
like the newer branches is actually done
to some extent or at least has prior art
in other branches and so I'll retouch on
that when we go over the the sort of
list of things where they are now but um
but yeah anywhere you see a checkbox
here you can jump to a Pru but usually
the one listed listed here and see some
code dealing with that there were places
we there were there was kind of a lot of
things that's not quite fair there were
a couple of things shifting around as we
were doing this work quarry API was one
of those things just you know as a
necessity like have to look upgrade all
those things and because of that some of
these things were in a car API and ready
to be modified in this way for providing
and some of them were not and
indications that they were not at the
time I put a note in just a deal with
this when the time comes you'll see like
we're still trying to get to the time of
integrating the rest of these things
back back in and each of these things
like I feel I feel somewhat embarrasses
but they took a long time to find and
verify like finding each of these things
a lot of the times was easy setting up
the data figuring out how to get ipfs to
do a thing so that I can confirm that I
provide was previously happening and it
wasn't happening when we removed its
slot provide and would happen again in
with if we added this other provide it
was just a time consuming process so I
think that that's a thing for anyone
that picks it up you just kind of have
to unless you kind of have to go through
each of these things and handle in case
by case set it up
you know the tests are gonna tell you to
some extent if it works but actually
verifying with the provides app and
takes a little time and they were split
up basically into additions and
modifications these are things that
you're doing to your own repo with
content that doesn't exist in the ipfs
network yet or presumably doesn't exist
in the ipfs network yet or at least not
as far as you're concerned and then
there were also a number of things that
you have to go through for linear
retrieving if you LS should you provide
all those things previously that's how
ipfs worked you know any any new blocks
came into contact even if they were
basically ephemeral where we're gonna be
we're gonna be announced and and so
there was like questions around that
kind of stuff
conversations and and and and whatnot
there but I think that the marching
orders were like let's let's make it
work the way the way it worked before
for the most part - these you know these
things that we obviously want to tweak
is this registering this makes sense so
far Did you touch my why you need the
two tops to read to the code because if
you do an IPF sls and you don't have the
and you're Ella saying something that
you actually don't have in your own
repository it first gets brought in and
in the way that it works before any new
bits lot just aggressively was like hey
new block all like prove all announced
that I that this block exists in order
to be in order to be provided like
anything what's up a dirt the others
earth is that is that a does that give
it give an answer a deed so what do you
mean by like ephemeral blocks that was
probably sake usage on my part I just
meant that like blocks that you're not
paying effectively like blocks they're
gonna come and go like you're gonna
you're gonna do an IP FS get for
something that you want you're gonna
provide it for the duration that you
have it and then obviously or not that's
just the way it worked before there was
a lot of like maybe it doesn't work that
way but I think those changing that
stuff was even more of a change in the
way that we were like duh let's like
keep it at least the way people expect
you to behave for the moment and then
and then we can talk about place or
differences in expectations answer yeah
I was gonna just back up and say like
yeah like the example of like LS in
Wikipedia and inadvertently providing
Wikipedia in that process it seems
if your Ellis in Wikipedia you may or
may not actually be wanting to store and
provide the entire thing the solution is
to LS offline no I'm kidding
you'd have to start it with like content
routing off or your yeah anyway yeah no
that's exactly right there's like it
goes it goes both ways like there there
are things obviously where you don't
want to do providing and there's things
where you do want to do providing we we
don't have that flexibility so you'll
see later I'll get into it I'll get into
I'll get into a sort of the list of
things that I've been maintaining lately
which is that the reality is that the
providing strategy we we have opinions
within ipfs this is just me speaking
obviously whatever but this is my
understanding of like what what people
would like is that within ipfs we have
opinions about how things should be
provided that can always be overridden
and that part we don't we don't have
basically any of that other than provide
everything at the moment so we may have
like if you you can set a global provide
strategy that's just like one word you
know none all routes this is just a
hypothetical and and that provides
strategy will actually affect the way
things get provided in different places
so if you do a group provide I don't
know if there's a technical term where
you're providing a tree you know I can
add or like a pin add or something like
or or something like that and you have
like a route strategy enabled it's gonna
provide just the root of that thing but
it's also gonna provide like if you do a
dag put it or if you do what you know
whatever those whatever those other
things are but then when you're doing an
IP FS ad or an IP FS LS and you know
your LS in with the pedia in that
command you should be able to say you
know that whatever gasps - provides
strategy equals none or something to
that effect so it's just like the
overall flexibility of deciding when and
how things are provided is is we have
opinions about it that get people you
know enough of the way and then we have
options for them to like get themselves
a bit
a bit further figuring all this out I
mean it's it seems obvious maybe it was
alright always obvious to everyone from
the beginning but just getting all of
these things in line and okay this is
the thing this is the thing just takes
time just takes takes time any other
questions from the it takes silence
as no okay there's another component
that we just simply never got to which
was the change finding change find when
we when I say we I mean me and I blamed
the team a little bit in that so we so
changing the find providers to account
for some see IDs not being provided is
the thing we never got to this is
backtracking this relies on metadata
there's just like a lot of pieces and it
seemed to me at the time at least there
were groups groups taking some
responsibility for this I think I
learned later that actually different
people were different taking responsible
for different parts of metadata and this
was probably something that just someone
could could start good start good start
tackling and I think that gee there's
metadata needed for GC that's the first
time that that was the first that was
the first meeting Rose ago if someone
suggested I had metadata for GC and that
can also be used for for providing so I
think that that that's a thing to keep
them to keep in mind yeah so once we
once we're not providing all of the
blocks we have this we just have this
problem of you know if you if you start
providing a thing and it stops you know
you get cut off in the middle either you
have to if you start I'm sorry you start
retrieving a thing and and it gets cut
off in the middle you either have to
retrieve from the beginning or we have
to have a system in place that lets you
start over from like more a more
convenient location in the in the tree
that's the providing strategy that's
like the real heart of the providing
strategy work and there's a few people
working on
a few different things I think that in
terms of the strategies themselves and
what they could be and what the most
like more advanced options are kuba has
a lot of information on that he was
doing I don't have access to them I
don't know of them being documented
anywhere online but I you know we all
sat next to each other and he was
showing us these like probabilistic
models given given IP fsor ethos that we
actually had at the time so so yeah it's
something I would definitely look into
as well so yeah and then this was kind
of done in stages let's do like a
simpler simpler strategy that accounts
for this and then we'll introduce them
more oh yeah I mean there's a note here
that actually Cooper has some research
going on and then the other thing was
that the reap reviser in the providing
system in the reprimanded the same
things but they're different you know
they just work differently provider
provides everything by default the
reaper Vidor does reprieve ID everything
but it gives you the option to like we
provide Bruce or you know that that kind
of that kind of thing I don't know
really
I'm not sure what a lot of the people I
came into contact with assumed or a lot
a few of the people I came into contact
with I got the impression that they
didn't realize that they were actually
announcing every individual block they
were like I have a thousand files I'm
doing a thousand 1000 announcements and
like the getting them to think like no
you're doing like way more than that
based on the size of those those those
files was kind of them yeah it was just
a thing that that I did it I didn't
expect to encounter but but did okay so
I'd like to this is just the first thing
a very first open thing I'm gonna do my
best to there so I have a list of two to
use in the in this like new epoch for
tracking and what I'd like to do is
almost all of them have prior art from
previous PRS that I did that did the
work in some form or another but we had
to abandon for one reason or another I'm
gonna like link the
things so that you don't have to go
searching for them yourselves but there
is a lot of content there's just a lot
of discussion and stuff that happened in
these in some of these issues and TRS
okay that was the original at they
tracking issue that was for me
now you can find issues on this exact
same line of work from like 2015 that
were like so there were like several
attempts and my very first attempt was
actually based off of the the last the
last attempt
I think the an interesting learning
moment in that situation was that that
that attempt actually failed but it
wasn't communicated anywhere in the PR
it was just people were pointing to it
as though like in flight work that was
never finished and it just took a while
to find out why you know why that why
that approach was that the wasn't the
right approach I don't have it marked
out in here but I'll I'll go back I'll
go back before tomorrow and make make a
note I don't think anyone's gonna run
into it but just make a note like make a
note of that
so the first interrupt me at any time I
apologize I'm kind of like rolling going
through it the first introduction of the
new provider system that actually made
it into ipfs kind of occurred by
accident so due to some changes that
were made in swapping the Khanna's on
the lines you might have more
information to correct this but we got
into a situation where the gateways were
taking a long time to provide routes and
there was a change that caused that to
happen that we didn't expect it so there
was some urgency to be able to provide
routes more quickly
I had already I already had this other
system that would side-by-side provide
routes providing routes for you know
alongside pin excuse me
pin in add calls and so we cleaned it up
and we and we merged it I became the
sort of like the first the first the
first version of this and if you want
thinks walking through this is not the
most useful thing to do please let me
know but I thought I thought like
understanding how things got to where
they are would be good for people that
want to move it move it forward see this
this VR just introduces a it's very
simple it introduces a provider that
just doesn't add in a pin add the reason
why I was so excited is because I had
been working on this system for a long
time and had nothing merged in because
it was there was just it was too big of
a change to make wholesale this gave us
an opportunity to get some of the code
in and figure out things like how does
this get you know how do we construct
the node you know how do we construct
the provider along with the node like
what are all the necessary dependencies
and how does it fit you know fit in with
the architecture that's eventually going
to be merged because when you're doing
PRS you know like you get it to work but
then everyone gets their eyes on it it's
good no no you should do this there's
this you know there's actually this
thing that we do that you know maybe no
one called out to you so you should do
that
so I was we were excited to get a lot of
those answers that when we were doing
the loop when we were doing work moving
forward we just had them like you know
we can kind of work work from them
anyway this gets merged I won't go
through the I won't go through it line
by line or anything but you could see
there's basically a few places like in
in core where we're we're running the
provider basically construct this
provider type and we run it in a few
location so we do it provided pain and
we do it provide an ad you know there's
a there's a few things but then the
provider itself is relatively simple
it's this type here you can construct it
it requires a content router as can be
expected when you the big but not the
big difference but a difference is that
the the Reaper visor system in bits swap
for which the provider system was
modeled after it just had an in-memory
like unbuffered cue of things that it
was eventually going to provide we moved
that to disk so we actually had a cue in
the data store that we worked from and
this was the this was the first
introduction of that of that cue as well
like yes just quick thing he said the
reprimanding me the provide system in
bit swap
I mean there reprieve ID system in ipfs
sorry so IP I made this book so I PFS
had a reproducing to what we wanted the
provider system do you it just did it we
the structure of it was the same the
details for a lot different okay and we
we just have some I mean pretty standard
stuff we have some workers that go
through and either you know on cue or DQ
I mean I'm sorry announced things as
they're coming off of the queue okay we
have some tests for this stuff the queue
code it changes a little bit I'm not
really going to go into detail on this
PR because we we actually made the queue
we actually made the queue simpler okay
sorry back to back to this stuff here
just a quick question does that mean
that those ashes are getting provided
twice once by ipfs and one swipe as well
the routes that's correct yeah just the
roots the roots are provided so the
problem is that bits loss provides the
roots last and we needed to provide them
first this was like the lowest cost way
to ensure that routes are provided
quickly it doesn't even guarantee that
they're provided first because they're
provided alongside you know they're just
provided right away but it does mean in
the grand scheme of things right now
it's if you're doing a varies like if
you're doing a bunch of one like one
block additions you're provide times are
gonna be maybe double they're happening
in parallel so they're not you know I
mean it's not quite it's not quite
double but you know you could you could
spend a little extra time there but on
the large I think that that extra one is
the the important thing is that that
will go away and then the only thing
that'll actually do into providing is
the provider system
and one of the things that one of the
things I have a note for here and I have
a bunch of code written for it I try I'm
hoping to at least have it I will have
that least of chiara for you guys to
take merge modify whatever that just
introduces priority to the queue and the
whole purpose of that is to preserve
this other behavior so like he'll add
you add all of your notes still just add
you with with a higher priority and
it'll get yeah it'll get handled first
but yeah so it's kind of like a not the
greatest solution at them in the moment
but we know that there's a there's a
another solution coming soon any other
questions from the bunny
cool thanks I appreciate it
so the eventually it became try not to
like read from script but I wanted to
like have some coherence to this so
eventually it became clear that like the
provider systems biggest challenge was
that it was an all-or-nothing change
like you can't you can't do a little you
can't like remove providing and add a
little bit of it back in that doesn't
really work it's just too core to the
system and so we spun our wheels a lot a
lot of bike shedding a lot of PR like
going over and and without resolution
because we were trying to handle like
rewriting providing from the ground up
and it was incredibly stressful and
someone I think it was I think it was
Steven it was like oh let's just release
it under a feature flag which hadn't
dawned on me and and admittedly it's
like if that that could have been a nice
thing I think any large sort of change
to ipfs is worthwhile to start off as a
as a feature fly because under that a
feature flag with all of the things that
were causing us to to spend a bunch of
time had to think about we could we
could dispense with basically until the
time was right
and so that's what we were trying to do
that we started doing that just a little
bit before just a little bit before a
teen week which was working out good so
so we just started to reuse the work
from there we got we got something
merged pretty
quickly okay so this was the first
strategic provider that that was merged
and admittedly it's the least impressive
because it literally doesn't do anything
but that was also a feature because
before there was no time before this PR
maybe there was and I just don't know
about it I never heard anything about it
people were asking for it but there was
no way to run ipfs without providing
without turning off content routing so
if you wanted to run IPA if you wanted
to add stuff you could do it offline but
if you wanted to run a node like Gateway
did and you don't want to do provides
there was no way to configure IP FS to
do that that's why I chose this as like
the smallest step like we can get this
thing in get it in quickly and actually
get some feedback from Gateway on
whether or not it was working
unfortunately that was for Aaron and and
Aaron left and we kind of lost getting
bad thing merged though I know though I
heard I heard during team week that that
Michael wanted to wanted to pick that
pick that up so I'm hoping that's
something that they've taken a look at
and and I've seen in some issues and PRS
that there's been some mention of it
okay and this really gets the this does
a few things it introduces again I don't
want to go over a bunch of the code
because the code you guys can obviously
read at a later date but I'll try it I
want to try to give some lucky anecdotes
about about what's going on here the the
sort of tricky thing that we have now at
this point is that we have bear with me
to ask questions here because this will
get a tiny bit confusing we have the so
we have go ipfs before we made any
changes which has the Reaper Vader
system that's in Go ipfs and it has the
provider system that's in that's in bit
swamp we as part of a change that
happened we needed to introduce the
provide a new provider system in ipfs
next to next to bid swap and that
provider system is the provider system
that we're working on it's just a very
minimal simplified version of that
system when the problem is that when we
introduce the new strategic system and
we're doing it piece by piece we
actually have to leave these o these
other systems intact and and we don't
want to mess with them because they're
serving a purpose the old provider
system is providing routes when it needs
to if that went away people have noticed
right away and we're going to be doing a
lot of heavy development on the new
provider the new provider system my my
inclinations was just to have a
duplicate move the old provider system
into the next to the old Reaper Vidor
system and then basically cut that is
like that things gonna get deprecated
eventually and just duplicated
effectively into the new system that we
then turn on my motivation there was
just that I didn't want regressions and
although it's a little bit of
duplication it's it's not a lot and and
the end goal is to deprecate it like the
whole thing that I'm marching towards
with was deprecating it so yeah that's
one thing that may look a little funky
in the pr PRS that I try to get up today
and tomorrow we said there's a
duplicated provider I want you
understand why it's there it's there so
that it's there so that we don't break
the existing system which relies on it
and not and I don't really want to spend
time like futzing making it work in both
situations and I'm not sure if anyone
can relate to this but but yeah that's
that's that was the goal down beyond
that we introduced the experimental flag
it's called strategic providing so if
that's true you're using the strategic
provider which means you're not doing
any providing at all which for some
people that's exactly what they want if
you have that false then you're just
using the old provider system that
simple
okay moving or did I
does the false interact with the I saw
there's like a Blin and like basically
do I use the old bits what like modern
but in bits law you know those things
are those things it seems like am i
using strategic providers or the bits
one or is it yeah like when you look at
the when you look at the configuration
code it's like the swap provided
abled is equal to strategic providing
enabled false yeah so there there's like
a direct correlation there and that was
only made for that purpose I think in
the same vein that all goes away I don't
think anyone wants bit swap doing the
providing I think it's just an artifact
so this comes up a little bit in in MF s
which is I spend a little bit of time
looking at and there's some special
considerations which I'll get to you
okay so the plan so given that we have
the experimental flag and we have we
have basically a provider that's in ipfs
and ipfs provides nothing it's like a
blank blank slate that's the late my
thought was like let's layer on the
providing from here and rather than
going all the way to the end what I did
is I sought out people who needed
specific things from providing and I
tried to order them based on basically
like the stepping stones to having
everything Gateway wanted to provide
nothing that was like the that was the
first step
cluster at the time they mentioned that
they could get away with providing just
roots later on they're like we did way
of providing nothing really but in
theory that providing roots is for
cluster and then it's like provide all
is like default ipfs use case and then
provide fancy for some definition of
fancy that in whatever scenario people
come up come up with I'm feeling these
strategies can get very specific and I
think that's some of that's going to
come up when we do when
get into the package management stuff
the pr
they're way more completed but we'll
never get merged if that makes any sense
they just have way more stuff in them so
a lot of the things that are in the to
dues at the bottom of this page that are
like hey like there's still some stuff
to do you can literally go find an
example and work work from there it's
not that it's not done at all it's just
in all of the like revisions that have
been made it's it those things haven't
made it made it back in yet okay yeah so
given this new I suppose flexibility I
was Chris or others needed that's where
this discussion came up I was hoping for
more I was hoping for more participation
in this I think this is something that
people can people can pick up but the
goal of this discussion was like hey I
know of some like I know some strategies
that we've discussed we discussed all we
discussed routes we've discussed like
whole and recursive or just pin routes
just ten recursive some probabilistic
thing that's that's not defined yet
nothing and then all the other
strategies that the specific users have
in mind so I wanted to get two things
from this discussion what are all the
things that we know people are
interested in whether or not we're gonna
actually make those things just so we
have an idea of like what the landscape
of these strategies are and then and
then number two what do we have to
support initially like for this to be a
success from our side as an initial
launch not as like the long-term feature
what is that what does that look like
and I I kind of gave what I thought it
looked like which was the ability to
provide everything which is what it's
the default behavior the ability to
disable providing without signaling
content routing and you don't need to
provide all the routes during both
provide operations like add in pin
because those are I think add doing bulk
ads is where we get a lot of the
complaints about not being able to add
things or not be able to retrieve things
once they've added because they're in
the process of they're in the process of
being provided so yes that I think
there's some discussion here it's not
all completely relevant some of its more
relevant than others and I think
get the torch and kind of having that
more of that conversation would be good
okay so then we get to more recently
towards the beginning of June cluster
asked for a simple version of the
provider system to be extracted so that
it can be used in ipfs light this is
something that they offered to do on
their own but I literally had like two
or three versions of things because of
things that were going on and out and I
was like let me just do it and get it
done for you real quick that way if my
world still makes sense when I need to
come back and make all these changes in
other places that request resulted in
the extraction of the provider system to
go ipfs provider of a link there this
was just the 14 week in Barcelona sorry
I'm just seeing the chance thanks Rallo
you have a wonderful day
ok yeah ok sorry about that my
obligatory octa box window for Fran jury
I knew he was gonna be in this meeting
so Don let's see here so yeah that got
extract that was just before 18 week in
Barcelona a couple of weeks before team
week maybe even more than that maybe
even a month month and a half
content routing was just not working
effectively and I was I was talking with
people in the community trying to get
providing issues figured out and all of
the providing issues were content
routing issues and no one was working on
content routing that I can get an answer
to and I was asking people like Steven
and so I started working on that myself
though I had little experience in it
just it seemed like no point building
the thing I'm building if no one's gonna
be able to no one's gonna be able to use
that so I started looking into that and
let people know and let Steven everyone
know that I was doing that the the
[Music]
eventually I have figured out that there
was some overlap like a team had formed
and there was some literally like Aish I
was like talking about a thing I was
I think a deem you and I were talking
about it a couple mornings during team
week and then I learned later oh there's
like other people looking at this same
issue and so I kind of jumped in that
room and tried somewhat successfully to
help to help out and some of that ended
up being related to the providing system
in so much as it related to as it
related to content content routing which
the providing system is built directly
on top of there was also a request
during that time Jeremy was like hey
let's just let's just let's just provide
routes and who cares about backtracking
it's not I'm like paraphrasing in my own
in my own words and this was this was to
deal with some stuff 14-week and so I
put up a PR that did that it's it's not
something I would merge into like
mainline into the mainline code base but
for a sort of spot you know for a sort
of spot fix it could have it could have
worked and it gives an idea of how those
types of changes would be made my I have
to change it I haven't well I've two
changes to prioritized Q&B
provide routes that are like I'm gonna
get those PRS I'm gonna get those PRS up
before I go away and they'll give much
more of an idea of like how the thing is
should be could be expanded on obviously
it's your guys's system so feel free to
do what you want with it okay this is
discussion sorry I realize I'm starting
to go quick trying to make a try to make
time and leave time for questions and
everything yeah also notably the 421 I
believe release team week and the
provider extraction they all have they
all happen at the same time so there was
a point where I was like we were doing
ha fixes and in one system we're having
to like go back and and the actual
extraction didn't get merged until until
kind of a little ways later and that's
the explanation for that we just we had
team week we had things come up and we
were doing things in both of those and
also trying to like migrate those those
new finds into this new system before we
actually encourage that new that news
and then ya provide routes provide
prioritized queue these are two things
I've had in process for a little bit and
provide all is something I've really
because there's prior art and provide
all sort of takes a different has a
different requirement it I'd like to get
at least a rough example of that ups
that you guys so you guys have it okay
anything else before I move on I'm gonna
try to get to these pretty quick I
realize I'm stretching you guys this
time a little bit no ok recent work done
in relevant outcomes I think there's
more here but I'll update this and let
lets we can go through this so the
obvious thing is that a limited
providing mechanism was introduced in
ago I confess and the option of
disabling has been added to the go it's
a code base I think those are two kind
of like when we first came when I first
came to the project and they were like
we need him have providing strategies
and then learning that it was all sort
of like baked and these two things are
really important for just being able to
to do the more creative strategy word so
that's where that is the there is a
component of this which is there's a UX
component of this that it's not it's not
entirely obvious how it should be
written down communicated I struggled
this with this in PRS talking back and
forth with with like Steven for example
this is where I landed as a thing that
would kind of make sense to me but
there's I can there's like some
ambiguity there's room for people to
read their own meeting it meaning into
these things so either refining them or
just making it extra clear but here's
the actual configuration of the
providing strategies is this is kind of
what I what I landed on is an at least
an initial version which is that you
have in your configure provider section
that has a strategy a strategy option
that strategy the obvious ones are like
none routes all and then whatever other
strategies that we that we we come up
with how what does that do is like one
of the first you can mark those things
it's not at all on the
what those things should do there's a
few different interpretations at least
and so here's where I landed on them if
you set the route provider strategy to
none it's simple no commands result in a
provide that's the easiest one just like
no matter what you do you're not gonna
provide anything for roots you have
these sort of group-oriented
provides you know you're gonna add a
whole tree and a whole tree get a whole
tree whatever it happens to be and that
situation roots is only going to provide
roots I think this is another thing that
this is obvious and it provides nodes
and all other context so what this
doesn't do is it doesn't prevent
providing them like dag put and that
kind of thing all similarly for the
group related ones where you're either
going to add the root or you're gonna
add everything or you're gonna add every
fifth or you're going to come up with
some probabilistic strategy for doing
that it'll do that when you're doing or
I mean I guess it straight stick to all
it'll do that all in the case of the
group providing otherwise it's gonna
provide everywhere else still right so
basically the gist is other than none
and it's unclear how it's gonna work
with the fancy strategies but other than
none all of your individual all of your
individual interactions are going to be
put doesn't have to be this way this is
just like me trying to like think of
what makes the most sense from the end
user when they enter like that
configuration the reality is that it may
be there needs to be more and maybe it
needs to be more robust it's just again
it's a it's a sort of thing that seems
like it would be a simple thing but
there's something to figure out here so
yeah then etc needs to be figured out
some padeen so is all the same thing
effectively as empty string yeah all is
what happens right now like all of the
regular stuff all is just like whatever
it whatever if you were to like use
master right now it would be using all
by default you know so I think if you
want empty string to be all I think that
would make a lot of sense and
we still need confidence to be able to
like remove this is all still it like
it's is that we don't have enough
confidence yet to remove the other stuff
and just replace the default with all is
that is that where we're at yeah it's
just getting all those details just
there so you can look back I won't get
into it we're like we're short on time
where I shat the end do you guys have a
few more minutes
is that okay great great
in those early pr's a Dean you can see I
actually go way further with a feature
it's like I really thought I was gonna
have something like that mirja bowl and
you can sort of read the discussion and
see how how that got peeled back but but
the intent was yeah let's let's provide
all and then just swap the system's out
it just ended up not working that way
Hanna what you got yeah so sorry I have
to go shortly to go to the my team stand
up but um one I mean honestly the
question for me is you so this is like
this incredibly hard problem which you
have managed to make some progress on
which is kind of amazing because it
seems like there's been many people
who've taken attempts at it and we
actually have code merge but we don't
have we we haven't gotten to the point
where we have enough code merged to drop
the other systems which means that we're
in this place where we have like four
different system for different things in
there I think that's my total count and
so my question is really just who's
picking this up and because it seems
like they like you know yes we are we've
learned a lot in this meeting and this
is a necessary question for you I guess
um but like who or who is like being
delegated to work on this because I feel
like if there's not a delegated person
to keep pushing this forward it's going
to languish and then we're not gonna
move we're not going to ever get to the
simpler point one one no I'll make that
name
that a little bit easier is that all I'm
not going to drop off the internet
tomorrow so I'll keep watching all of
this stuff like I'll have my like octo
box open and my ability to like sync
sync timing to it is obviously limited
but I am I'm super more than happy to
like talk about things reflect on things
like figure out where my mind was or
whatever I'll do my best documented out
at all but yeah for whoever picks it up
and if it's someone that's not in this
room just I would like the message to be
to be known that I am I'm available and
I'd like to I'd like to I'd like to yeah
in what way I can be a part of this
thing moving forward so yes just to be
clear this was not an ask for unit I'd
say it's more to figure out who's going
to time say oh yeah no I got I think I'm
just saying in addition to that while
making that decision just know you know
anything just from Molly or whoever just
know that I'm there thank you Michael
appreciate that yeah and I think our top
level position is like there isn't
someone given given our constrained
nature to pick it up right now which is
why we're trying to do such a big
approach at documenting and specifying
kind of how how things are at so it's
easy to onboard on and sometime in the
future hopefully a lot of the testing
work that is happening right now is
gonna be super relevant for also making
this more just easier to reason about
it's like well you know you can dive
deeper into these things without kind of
having some of the the frustrations that
Michael was describing at the beginning
of not being able to get observability
of
of what was happening in the system
there's definitely some pieces that I
think will land to make some of this
easier to work on in the future um yeah
that's right right yeah and I know you
were mentioning this specifically but
just since you said the word testing and
I forgot to mention it I do have unit
tests and Sharna tests for all of this
stuff that
that's here anyone want to stick around
while I go through the rest of this
little bit it's maybe not terribly
important it's all written down I mean
you can read it the main thing I wanted
to point out is that I have this list of
to do's that are like for me the high
level to do's and the the things there's
an M F s note that I wanted to make
which is at Emmet like I went digging
around in EM F s and M F s just
eventually uses the dag service and
that's how the providing is happening so
that dag service is not going to do
provides for m FS anymore and so
somewhere in mmm FS someone's going to
have to interact with a provider system
of some kind to say yes you'll say the
dag service does providing the dag
service doesn't itself do providing but
the like long chain of interactions
after you do something in the Dicer vez
causes causes a thing to be serviced a
bit swap that will eventually be that
will eventually result in a provide it's
try to follow the logic it's not it's
not together to be specific you add a
box the dag surface and then it gets
added to the block service then the
block service puts the Block in the data
store and at the same time tells bits
about we have the block and then we call
has the bits pop bit swap then finds
anyone who's trying to ask for the block
gives us them and announced the network
that we have to block using the provider
system that's one of the reasons we're
trying to make the system work okay yeah
thank you yeah so that's it I mean the
the - duze the thing I would say is
there's a lot of stuff unchecked here
but actually if you look back at the
prior epochs everything except for
anything that has three asterisks I
don't have code for like for the fancy
providing stuff like I mean Steven
you're in the room you're gonna have
more info but the only person I saw they
had like anything concrete looking like
was kuba and I know he's I know he's
working on some stuff but but I think
that
that work that he did out in some format
would be really good so I think there
may even be some some I'm not ready to
use code but something like some model
to think about but otherwise all of
these other things like you some of it
like these like commands you can
basically copy paste from like other PRS
it's just we just learn things and
stepped away from a PR to do a simpler
thing that we we knew was gonna we knew
was going to work and so all of this
work exists somewhere but a lot has
changed so you're gonna need to like
tweak it to make it work sorry steel
what's up hi is there any we've linked
to the PRS or like the sections of the
code because like it can be hard to like
go through 100% so I was yeah I was
saying earlier that I saw the day and a
half and there's a few things I just
haven't got you I was sick most of last
week one of those things that I called
out specifically is I will get links to
these things cuz yeah it's it's even for
me I've done the work it's just been so
long I have to I have to I have to go
digging I have to go digging around
myself so yeah I'll do that
and I think they're gonna look different
you know the system's change we learn
new things but they're gonna they're
like prior art that'll that'll get the
things flowing and Steve doesn't know
good work on the interfaces and that's
always for me at least the phone's
pretty good right yeah yeah I'm hoping
the interfaces should land I'm making a
few changes for the prioritization and
for the strategies which which there
won't be enough time to like go back and
forth on but hey you'll have at least
one you at least have an idea
on that note though I did mention
earlier and I'm gonna say it explicitly
to you to students I know you're doing
with a lot of ghost stuff
I'm not disappearing pay me on things
feel free like I you know my response
may be delayed because of like meetings
or something like that but I'd love to
I'd love to be around for those things
as they come up I'd hate for you guys so
I have to relearn something I learned
because I didn't write it down low
enough
thank you that's much appreciated but
we're not gonna hold you responsible to
responding yeah yes thank you yeah and
my other note was that I think that I
think it's a big enough problem that
maybe everyone is
experiencing this everyone's like
everyone at PL is on a big problem that
really is suited for more than one
person but they're liking the person
working on it I
I felt that like a number of times sort
of like going through this that you know
there was just there was other people
that were needed that what it really
would have really helped out a ton so if
there I know st. more people it's not
the time right now to say more people
because I know if it is that priorities
have been shifting a little a little bit
but uh but yeah that's it and this isn't
it and this isn't the last conversation
so just just if you have more things
reach out to me directly I'm around for
a few more days so good thank you very
much wonderful thank you thank you all
it's been great working with you guys I
look forward to - trying to do that some
more take care
thank you Michael I by Dominic